Renamed CALM to CoALM (#1450)
oumi-ai/oumi: configs/projects/coalm/README.md

[![Model on HF](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/badges/resolve/main/model-on-hf-sm-dark.svg)](https://huggingface.co/collections/uiuc-convai/coalm-67a3da0baa69ae101e55699a)
[![Dataset on HF](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/badges/resolve/main/dataset-on-hf-sm-dark.svg)](https://huggingface.co/datasets/uiuc-convai/CoALM-IT)

**[Can a Single Model Master Both Multi-turn Conversations and Tool Use? CoALM: A Unified Conversational Agentic Language Model](https://emrecanacikgoz.github.io/CoALM/)**
[Emre Can Acikgoz](https://emrecanacikgoz.github.io/), [Jeremiah Greer](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeremiah-greer-b09294109/), [Akul Datta](https://www.linkedin.com/in/akuldatta), [Ze Yang](https://github.com/zemple), [William Zeng](https://www.linkedin.com/in/williamfzeng), [Oussama Elachqar](https://www.elachqar.com/), [Emmanouil Koukoumidis](http://www.koukoumidis.com/), [Dilek Hakkani-Tür](https://siebelschool.illinois.edu/about/people/faculty/dilek), [Gokhan Tur](https://siebelschool.illinois.edu/about/people/faculty/gokhan)

> Large Language Models (LLMs) with API-calling capabilities enabled building effective Language Agents (LA), while also revolutionizing the conventional task-oriented dialogue (TOD) paradigm. However, current approaches face a critical dilemma: TOD systems are often trained on a limited set of target APIs, requiring new data to maintain their quality when interfacing with new services, while LAs are not trained to maintain user intent over multi-turn conversations. Because both robust multi-turn management and advanced function calling are crucial for effective conversational agents, we evaluate these skills on three popular benchmarks: MultiWOZ 2.4 (TOD), BFCL V3 (LA), and API-Bank (LA), and our analyses reveal that specialized approaches excel in one domain but underperform in the other. To bridge this chasm, we introduce **CoALM** (**C**onversational **A**gentic **L**anguage **M**odel), a unified approach that integrates both conversational and agentic capabilities. We created **CoALM-IT**, a carefully constructed multi-task dataset that interleave multi-turn ReAct reasoning with complex API usage. Using CoALM-IT, we train three models **CoALM 8B**, **CoALM 70B**, and **CoALM 405B**, which outperform top domain-specific models, including GPT-4o, across all three benchmarks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Large Language Models (LLMs) with API-calling capabilities enabled building effective Language Agents (LA), while also revolutionizing the conventional task-oriented dialogue (TOD) paradigm. However, current approaches face a critical dilemma: TOD systems are often trained on a limited set of target APIs, requiring new data to maintain their quality when interfacing with new services, while LAs are not trained to maintain user intent over multi-turn conversations. Because both robust multi-turn management and advanced function calling are crucial for effective conversational agents, we evaluate these skills on three popular benchmarks: MultiWOZ 2.4 (TOD), BFCL V3 (LA), and API-Bank (LA), and our analyses reveal that specialized approaches excel in one domain but underperform in the other. To bridge this chasm, we introduce **CoALM** (**Co**nversational **A**gentic **L**anguage **M**odel), a unified approach that integrates both conversational and agentic capabilities. We created **CoALM-IT**, a carefully constructed multi-task dataset that interleave multi-turn ReAct reasoning with complex API usage. Using CoALM-IT, we train three models **CoALM 8B**, **CoALM 70B**, and **CoALM 405B**, which outperform top domain-specific models, including GPT-4o, across all three benchmarks.
```

Reviewer: Hard to see in the Diff here, but I'm suggesting changing `**C**onversational` -> `**Co**nversational`
